Guide/contact routing (#866)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-enterprise/2.6/guides/using-contact-routing.md

---
title: "Contact Routing Guide"
linkTitle: "Contact Routing Guide"
description: "Set up a Sensu Enterprise Contact Routing."
product: "Sensu Enterprise"
version: "2.6"
weight: 7
menu:

>  sensu-Enterprise-2.6:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 sensu-enterprise-2.6:
```

checks. For instance 

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handler": "email",
      "contact": "support"
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

## Client Configuration

A client configuration can include a contact to use.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "client": {
    "name": "ec2-west-id-12345",
    "address": "8.8.8.8",
    "subscriptions": [
      "production",
      "aws"
    ],
    "contact": "aws-team"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

# Example Implementations

## Default Configuration

For the examples we'll be working with we want to define what our default handlers will be.

In the following section we'll be going over different scenarios and showcase how contact routing would be used and how contact routing affects notifications being sent. We'll be using Email, Slack and Pagerduty as our example handlers.

Bellow is the default configuration for the handlers we'll be working with in our examples:

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "handlers": {
    "slack": {
      "webhook_url": "https://hooks.slack.com/services/foo/bar/foobar",
      "username": "sensu",
      "channel": "#alerts",

>       "timeout": 10

Reviewer: This might be confusing since the Slack integration doesn't appear within the handler scope in the Sensu Enterprise configuration. I'm not sure about email and PagerDuty.

Author: removed the "handler" scope as it's an integration 🤦‍♂️

    },
    "email": {
      "smtp": {
        "address": "smtp.example.com",
        "port": 587,
        "openssl_verify_mode": "none",
        "enable_starttls_auto": true,
        "authentication": "plain",
        "user_name": "postmaster@example.com",
        "password": "SECRET"
      },
      "to": "support@example.com",
      "from": "noreply@example.com",
      "timeout": 10
    },
    "pagerduty": {
      "service_key": "someservicekey ",
      "timeout": 10
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

## Multiple Handlers With Matching Contacts

TODO: Check with email and slack handler, contact with email and slack

In this configuration we see that our contact and check both have a

> configuration for email and slack.

Reviewer: It might be worth it to be more explicit here since it's not the same type of configuration on the check and the contact.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email",
        "slack"
      ],
      "contact": "support"
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      },
      "slack": {
        "channel": "#t1support"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

> An event generated by this check would have an email sent to "support@sensuapp.com" and to the #t1support channel. 

Reviewer: It would be great to highlight here that we'll get an email sent to "support@sensuapp.com" and to the #t1support channel _instead of_ an email sent to "support@example.com" and to the #alerts channel

<img alt="Contact Routing Multiple Handlers with Matching Contact" title="Contact Routing Multiple Handlers with Matching Contact" src="/images/contact-routing-multiple-handlers-matching-single-contact.png">

## Multiple Handlers With Single Matching Contact

When having a check with multiple handlers define it is important to note that
Sensu does not skip a handler if a contact does not contain configuration for
said handler. Sensu will use the default configuration in these cases.

A typical scenario when using contacts is that you'll have a single service
configured for the contact and a check with multiple handlers.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email",
        "slack"
      ],
      "contact": "support"
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

For an event generated by the above check, we sould receive an email at
"support@sensuapp.com" and a slack message in our default channel, #support.

> <img alt="Contact Routing Multiple Handlers with Single Contact" title="Contact Routing Multiple Handlers with Single Contact" src="/images/contact-routing-multiple-handlers-single-contact.png">

Reviewer: This is great! Super clear!

      - [Single Handler with Some Matching Contacts](#single-handler-with-some-matching-contacts)
  - [Multiple Handlers](#multiple-handlers)
      - [Multiple Handlers with a Matching Contact](#multiple-handlers-with-a-matching-contact)
      - [Multiple Handlers with a Single Matching Contact](#multiple-handlers-with-a-single-matching-contact)
      - [Multiple Handlers with a Single Non-Matching Contact](#multiple-handlers-with-a-single-non-matching-contact)
      - [Multiple Handlers with Multiple Matching Contacts](#multiple-handlers-with-multiple-matching-contacts)
      - [Multiple Handlers with Multiple Non-Matching Contacts](#multiple-handlers-with-multiple-non-matching-contacts)
      - [Multiple Handlers with Some Matching Contacts](#multiple-handlers-with-some-matching-contacts)
- [Wrapping Up](#wrapping-up)
  - [Contact Routing and Sensu Event Pipeline](#contact-routing-and-sensu-event-pipeline)
- [References](#references)
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

# Prerequisites

Before diving into this guide, we recommend having the following components ready:

- A working Sensu Enterprise deployment

> - Two or more handlers configured

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Two or more [Sensu Enterprise integrations](../../integrations) configured
```

metric integrations.

_NOTE: Sensu Enterprise supports contact routing for all integrations except
EC2, Puppet, Chef, Flapjack, and Event Stream._

In this guide we'll cover configuring and using Sensu Enterprise Contact Routing.

## Contact Routing Basics

In Sensu Enterprise Contact Routing, contacts are composed of a name and
configuration overrides for one or more of Sensu Enterprise's built-in
integrations or handler configurations. A contact in Sensu Enterprise is not too
dissimilar from a contact on your phone, in which they have a name and one or
more _identifiers_ for various communication **channels** (e.g. a **phone**
_number_, **email** _address_, **Twitter** _username_, etc). As an example your contact may have the following **email** _address, **slack** _channel_, **pagerduty** _service\_key_, etc.

### Contact Configuration

Configuring a contact requires you to define the name of the contact and the
services plus configuration override(s) for that contact.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      },
      "slack": {
        "channel": "#support"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

> In the example above we have a contact named **support**. For **support** we

Reviewer 2: I'm finding the intermixed use of bold and italics hard to follow. Since these are referencing named parameters, perhaps it makes more sense to use `back-ticks for code fencing` ? I think this is also what the [formatting section of our docs style guide specifies](https://github.com/sensu/sensu-docs/wiki/Sensu-docs-style-guide#formatting).

Reviewer 2: If we're in agreement, let's make sure to apply that change to all the places we're using bold/italics.

have an override configuration for **email** and **slack**. In our example we're having
this contact email _support@sensuapp.com_ instead of the email integration's
default **to** address. For Slack, we're defining the channel the event should
post to, in this case _#support_.

### Check Configuration

> Once a contact has been defined, we can now apply which contact(s) to use in a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a contact has been defined, we can now specify which contact(s) to use in a
```

check configuration. The use case for having a contact defined on a check could 
be that the check is owned by a particular team or group. For instance:

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Client Configuration

> A client configuration can include a contact to use. This is helpful for defining ownership of the client itself.

Reviewer 2: I don't think its clear what "defining ownership of the client" means. This seems like right place to describe how contacts at the client level become the defaults for events that this client creates. Those defaults can be overridden by contacts specified in the check definition.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "client": {
    "name": "ec2-west-id-12345",
    "address": "8.8.8.8",
    "subscriptions": [
      "production",
      "aws"
    ],
    "contact": "aws-team"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

# Example Implementations

> In this section we will be showcasing how contact routing behaves depending on the various possible configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section we will be illustrating contact routing behaviors in a few example scenarios.
```

## Global Configuration

> For the examples we'll be working with we want to define what our global handlers will be.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence could be struck entirely.

In the following section we'll be going over different scenarios and showcasing how contact routing would be used and how contact routing affects notifications being sent. We'll be using Email, Slack and PagerDuty as our example integrations/handlers.

> Below is the default configuration for the integrations we'll be working with in our examples:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is the base configuration for the integrations we'll be working with in our examples:
```

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "slack": {
    "webhook_url": "https://hooks.slack.com/services/foo/bar/foobar",
    "username": "sensu",
    "channel": "#alerts",
    "timeout": 10
  },
  "email": {
    "smtp": {
      "address": "smtp.example.com",
      "port": 587,
      "openssl_verify_mode": "none",
      "enable_starttls_auto": true,
      "authentication": "plain",
      "user_name": "postmaster@example.com",
      "password": "SECRET"
    },
    "to": "default@example.com",
    "from": "noreply@example.com",
    "timeout": 10
  },
  "pagerduty": {
    "service_key": "someservicekey ",
    "timeout": 10
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

## Single Handler

### Single Handler with a Single Matching Contact

For our first configuration we have a single handler **email** and a contact **support** configured. The **support** contact has a configuration override for **email** that will change the default _to_ email address from "default@example.com" to "support@sensuapp.com".

{{< highlight json >}}

> {

Reviewer 2: I think this single JSON blob should be broken up into two blocks. As is, I worry that folks will think they have to specify the contact configuration along side the check.

  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

> Because the contact configuration matches the handler being used, any event generated for this check will use this contact's configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the `support` contact's configuration provides overrides matching the handler being used, any event generated for this check will use this contact's configuration.
```

![Single Handler with Single Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/single-handler/single-matching-contact.png)

### Single Handler with a Single Non-Matching Contact

This configuration has a single handler **email** a contact **support** configured. The **support** contact does not have a configuration override for **email**.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }

>   },

Reviewer 2: Break up this JSON blob as well?

  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "foobarkey"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

> Even though the contact **support** matches in both the **checks** and **contacts**, since there is no configuration under the **support** contact for **email**, no change to the default email configuration is made and the default configuration is used. In our example the email will be sent to "default@example.com".

Reviewer 2: I think the first sentence here needs to be broken up.

---
title: "Contact Routing Guide"
linkTitle: "Contact Routing Guide"
description: "Set up a Sensu Enterprise Contact Routing."
product: "Sensu Enterprise"
version: "2.6"
weight: 7
menu:
 sensu-enterprise-2.6:
   parent: guides
---

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Overview](#overview)
  - [Contact Routing Basics](#contact-routing-basics)
    - [Contact Configuration](#contact-configuration)
    - [Check Configuration](#check-configuration)
    - [Client Configuration](#client-configuration)

> - [Example Implementation](#example-implementation)

Reviewer 3: Needs to be `example-implementations` or the heading below needs to be changed to `example-implementation` as this link doesn't work.

Author: updated the header for section to be plural

>   - [Default Configuration](#default-configuration)

Reviewer 3: This leads to no where it appears. I don't see any heading below named `default-configuration`.

Author: default needs to be changed to global

  - [Single Handler](#single-handler)
      - [Single Handler with a Single Matching Contact](#single-handler-with-a-single-matching-contact)

>       - [Single Handler with a Single Non-Matching Contact](#single-handler-a-single-non-matching-contact)

Reviewer 3: Needs a `with-` added after `handler-`.

      - [Single Handler with Multiple Matching Contacts](#single-handler-with-multiple-matching-contacts)
      - [Single Handler with Multiple Non-Matching Contacts](#single-handler-with-multiple-non-matching-contacts)
      - [Single Handler with Some Matching Contacts](#single-handler-with-some-matching-contacts)
  - [Multiple Handlers](#multiple-handlers)
      - [Multiple Handlers with a Matching Contact](#multiple-handlers-with-a-matching-contact)
      - [Multiple Handlers with a Single Matching Contact](#multiple-handlers-with-a-single-matching-contact)
      - [Multiple Handlers with a Single Non-Matching Contact](#multiple-handlers-with-a-single-non-matching-contact)
      - [Multiple Handlers with Multiple Matching Contacts](#multiple-handlers-with-multiple-matching-contacts)
      - [Multiple Handlers with Multiple Non-Matching Contacts](#multiple-handlers-with-multiple-non-matching-contacts)

>       - [Multiple Handlers With Some Matching Contacts](#multiple-handlers-some-matching-contacts)

Reviewer 3: Got a capital `W` here on with. Link is missing a `with-` after `handlers-` to work.

- [Wrapping Up](#wrapping-up)
  - [Contact Routing and Sensu Event Pipeline](#contact-routing-and-sensu-event-pipeline)
- [References](#references)
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

# Prerequisites

Before diving into this guide, we recommend having the following components ready:

- A working Sensu Enterprise deployment
- Two or more handlers configured

If you've not already signed up for Sensu Enterprise, you can do so via [this link][1].

In this guide we'll be using [Slack][2] and [Email][3] handlers for our demonstration.

# Overview

Every incident, outage or event has an ideal first responder. This can be either
a team or individual with the knowledge to tirage and address the issue. Sensu
Enterprise contact routing makes it possible to assign checks to specific teams
and/or individuals, reducing mean time to response and recovery (MTTR). Contact

> routing works with all of the Sensu Enterprise third-party notification and

Reviewer 3: Does contact routing work for non-Enterprise integrations? If so, worth a mention as that continues to add value for community based handlers or ones that a customer may have written themselves.

Appears this is from the contact routing reference guide. Might be worth linking to that rather than having two places to keep updated.

metric integrations.

_NOTE: Sensu Enterprise supports contact routing for all integrations except
EC2, Puppet, Chef, Flapjack, and Event Stream._

> In this guide we'll cover configuring and using Sensu Enterprise Contact

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this guide we'll cover configuring and using Sensu Enterprise Contact Routing
```

## Contact Routing Basics

In Sensu Enterprise Contact Routing, contacts are composed of a name and
configuration overrides for one or more of Sensu Enterprise's built-in
integrations or handler configurations. A contact in Sensu Enterprise is not too

> dissimilar from a contact on your phone, which usually have a name and one or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
dissimilar from a contact on your phone, in which they have a name and one or
```

more _identifiers_ for various communication **channels** (e.g. a **phone**
_number_, **email** _address_, **Twitter** _username_, etc).

> ### Contact Configuration

Reviewer 3: Might be worth it to show a handler somewhere near here, as I could see a user thinking this is all the need for contact routing to work, but you'll still need a handler definition as well.

Author: added handler and integration examples

Configuring a contact requires you to define the name of the contact and the

> services plus configuration override for that contact.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
services plus configuration override(s) for that contact.
```

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      },
      "slack": {
        "channel": "#support"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

In the example above we have a contact named **support**. For **support** we
have an override configuration for **email** and **slack**. In our example we're having
this contact email _support@sensuapp.com_ instead of the email integration's
default **to** address. For Slack, we're defining the channel the event should
post to, in this case _#support_.

### Check Configuration

Once a contact has been defined, we can now apply which contact(s) to use in a

> check configuration. The use case for having it on a check could be that the

Reviewer 3: Maybe remove the mention of the use case on the client, as that is called out in the client heading below. This section is just about check configuration.

client is owned by a particular team or group, the same can be done for specific
checks. For instance:

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Client Configuration

A client configuration can include a contact to use. This is helpful for defining ownership of the client itself.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "client": {
    "name": "ec2-west-id-12345",
    "address": "8.8.8.8",
    "subscriptions": [
      "production",
      "aws"
    ],
    "contact": "aws-team"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

# Example Implementations

> In this section we will be showcasing how contact routing interacts depending on the different possible configurations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this section we will be showcasing how contact routing behaves depending on the various possible configurations.
```

## Global Configuration

For the examples we'll be working with we want to define what our global handlers will be.

In the following section we'll be going over different scenarios and showcasing how contact routing would be used and how contact routing affects notifications being sent. We'll be using Email, Slack and PagerDuty as our example integrations/handlers.

> Bellow is the default configuration for the integrations we'll be working with in our examples:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below is the default configuration for the integrations we'll be working with in our examples:
```

Reviewer 3: I'd stress more that these handlers are used with all examples. Maybe suggest to copy them to a text editor to follow a long with.

        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Because the contact configuration matches the handler being used, any event generated for this check will use this contact's configuration.

![Single Handler with Single Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/single-handler/single-matching-contact.png)

### Single Handler with a Single Non-Matching Contact

This configuration has a single handler **email** a contact **support** configured. The **support** contact does not have a configuration override for **email**.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "foobarkey"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Even though the contact **support** matches in both the **checks** and **contacts**, since there is no configuration under the **support** contact for **email**, no change to the default email configuration is made and the default configuration is used. In our example the email will be sent to "default@example.com".

> ![Single Handler with Single Non-Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/single-handler/single-non-matching-contact.png)

Reviewer 3: This image shows the event going to `support@sensuapp.com`, rather than what is called out in the scenario above of `default@example.com`. I believe `default@example.com` is the correct on since there is no matching contact override for `email` and `default@example.com` is in the `email` handler.

Author: updated image

![Single Handler with Multiple Matching Contacts](/images/contact-routing/single-handler/multiple-matching-contacts.png)

### Single Handler with Multiple Non-Matching Contacts

For this configuration we have a single handler **email** and multiple contacts, **support** and **dev** configured. The "support" contact has an override configuration for **slack** and the **dev** contact has an override configuration for **pagerduty**, neither of which have an override configuration for **email**.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support",
        "dev"
      ]
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "slack": {
        "channel": "#support"
      }
    },
    "dev": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "foobarkey"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

In this instance, since the contacts defined do not have an override configuration for **email** the default configuration for **email** will be used, in our example an email will be sent to "default@example.com"

> ![Single Handler with Multiple Non-Matching Contacts](/images/contact-routing/single-handler/multiple-non-matching-contacts.png)

Reviewer 3: This image shows the event going to support@sensuapp.com, rather than what is called out in the scenario above of default@example.com. I believe default@example.com is the correct on since there is no matching contact override for email and default@example.com is in the email handler.

Author: updated image

### Single Handler with Some Matching Contacts

In this configuration we have a single handler **email** and multiple contacts **support**, **dev** and **eng** configured. The **support** contact has an override configuration for **email**, the **dev** contact has an override configuration for **pagerduty** and the **eng** contact has an override configuration for **slack**.

> Since two contacts 

Reviewer 3: Not sure if this was to be continued or need to be removed.

Author: removed

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support",
        "dev"
      ]
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.io"
      }
    },
    "dev": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "foobarkey"
      }
    },
    "eng": {
      "slack": {
        "channel": "#engineering"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

> For this instance two emails will be generated. The first email will be sent to **support** contact at "support@sensuapp.io". The second email will be sent to our default email at "default@exmaple.com".

Reviewer 3: Probably a nit-pick here, but may want to be careful of the use of the word default in relation to handlers, since we do have that special **default** handler out there. Not sure of a better word though.

Author: changed to global configuration email instead of default email for clarity.

The reason for this is that since we have one or more contacts that do not have a configuration override for **email**, we use the default configuration.

> ![Single Handler with Some Matching Contacts](/images/contact-routing/single-handler/some-matching-contacts.png)

Reviewer 3: Image shows both emails going to support@sensuapp.io.

I am also generally curious about this configuration, which I can test on my own. I wasn't aware that having multiple contacts defined and if no match was found for one of them for that handler, it would send an email anyways to the email address defined in the email handler as well as the matching contact.

Author: correct, if you have 1 or more contacts defined but none of them have a contact override for the handler, a single handler event is sent.

### Multiple Handlers with a Single Matching Contact

This configuration we have two handlers **email** and **slack** a contact **support** configured. The **support** contact has a configuration override for only **email** that will change the default _to_ email address from "default@example.com" to "support@sensuapp.com". The **support** contact does not have a handler override for the **slack** handler.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email",
        "slack"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Because the contact configuration only has configuration override for the **email** handler, only the **email** handler will be override. The default configuration for **slack** will be used.

![Multiple Handlers with Single Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/multiple-handlers/single-matching-contact.png)

### Multiple Handlers with a Single Non-Matching Contact

> Similar to the previous configuration, we have two handlers, **email** and **slack**, and a contact **support** configured. The **support** contact has a configuration override for **pagerduty** that will change the default _service_key_. The support contact does not have a handler override for the **slack** or **email** handler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Similar to the previous configuration, we have two handlers, **email** and **slack**, and a contact **support** configured. The **support** contact has a configuration override for **pagerduty** that will change the default _service\_key_. The support contact does not have a handler override for the **slack** or **email** handler.
```

Reviewer 3: Escapes the second `_` so `service_key` is in italics instead of just `service` and then a `key_` at the end.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email",
        "slack"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "foobarkey"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Since the contact does not have a configuration override for **email** or **slack** the default configuration for those handlers are used instead.

> ![Multiple Handlers with Single Non-Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/multiple-handlers/single-non-matching-contact.png)

Reviewer 3: Image has `support@sensuapp.com` in it. I think it should be `default@example.com`.

Author: updated image

![Multiple Handlers with Multiple Matching Contacts](/images/contact-routing/multiple-handlers/multiple-matching-contacts.png)

### Multiple Handlers with Multiple Non-Matching Contacts

In this example we have two handlers configured for our check, **email** and **slack**. We have two contacts being used, **support** and **dev**, and both contacts have configuration override for **pagerduty** and do not include any override for **slack** or **email**.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email",
        "slack"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support",
        "dev"
      ]
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "supportfoobarkey"
      }
    },
    "dev": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "devfoobarkey"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Since both contacts match and but both contacts do not have configuration overrides for both handlers, two handler events are generated. The default configuration for both handlers will be used

> ![Multiple Handlers with Multiple Non-Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/multiple-handlers/multiple-non-matching-contacts.png)

Reviewer 3: Same as a few of the images above, has the support email in the picture but should be sent to default.

Author: updated image

      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

With some contacts having at least one single matching contact override we can expect that there will be four different handler events generated.

For **email** handler we will be sending an email to the **support** contact override of "support@sensuapp.io". Since **dev** and **eng** do not have a contact override for **email** a single email will be sent to our default email configured, which in our case is "default@example.com".

For **slack** handler, similar to our email handler, we'll be creating a message for our **dev** contact override to "#dev" _channel_. With **support** and **eng** both not having a contact override for **slack**, an message will be sent to our default **slack** _channel_ configured, in our case "#alerts".

![Multiple Handlers with Some Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/multiple-handlers/some-matching-contacts.png)

# Wrapping Up

## Contact Routing and Sensu Event Pipeline

When a check is executed and an event is generated, Sensu splits handling
of the event for each handler defined. When multiple handlers are defined, each
handler is managed independently. This means that each handler is processed

> independent of any other handler configured.

Reviewer 3: I feel like this could be chopped to two sentences, but also possible I am missing an intention. Just feels like the first sentence already says what the second one does. Happy chat about it!

  - [Multiple Handlers](#multiple-handlers)
    - [Multiple Handlers Matching Contact](#multiple-handler-matching-contact)
    - [Multiple Handlers Single Matching Contact](#multiple-handler-single-matching-contact)
    - [Multiple Handlers Single Non-Matching Contact](#multiple-handler-single-non-matching-contact)
    - [Multiple Handlers Multiple Matching Contacts](#multiple-handler-multiple-matching-contacts)
    - [Multiple Handlers Multiple Non-Matching Contacts](#multiple-handler-multiple-non-matching-contacts)
    - [Multiple Handlers Some Matching Contacts](#multiple-handler-some-matching-contacts)
- [Wrapping Up](#wrapping-up)
- [References](#references)

TODO: add filters to handlers
TODO: add severities to contacts

# Prerequisites

Before diving into this guide, we recommend having the following components ready:

- A working Sensu Enterprise deployment
- Two or more handlers configured

If you've not already signed up for Sensu Enterprise, you can do so via [this link][1].

In this guide we'll be using [Slack][2] and [Email][3] handlers for our demonstration.

# Overview

Every incident, outage or event has an ideal first responder. This can be either

> a team or individual with the knowledge to tirage and address the issue. Sensu

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
a team or individual with the knowledge to triage and address the issue. Sensu
```

      "port": 587,
      "openssl_verify_mode": "none",
      "enable_starttls_auto": true,
      "authentication": "plain",
      "user_name": "postmaster@example.com",
      "password": "SECRET"
    },
    "to": "default@example.com",
    "from": "noreply@example.com",
    "timeout": 10
  },
  "pagerduty": {
    "service_key": "someservicekey ",
    "timeout": 10
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

## Single Handler

### Single Handler with Single Matching Contact

This configuration we have a single handler (email) a contact (support) configured. The support contact has a configuration override for email that will change the default "to" email address from "default@example.com" to "support@sensuapp.com".

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  },
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Because the contact configuration matches the handler being used, any event generated for this check will use this contact's configuration.

TODO: ADD IMAGE

> <img alt="Single Handler with Single Matching Contact" title="Single Handler with Single Matching Contact" src="/images/contact-routing-single-handler-single-matching-contact.png">

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
![Single Handler with Single Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing-single-handler-single-matching-contact.png)
```
^ Would be the way to insert an image using markdown. A better way would be:

`![Single Handler with Single Matching Contact][4]`

^ As this would keep with our convention of adding links at the end of a file, rather than adding them inline.

Enterprise contact routing makes it possible to assign checks to specific teams
and/or individuals, reducing mean time to response and recovery (MTTR). Contact
routing works with all of the Sensu Enterprise third-party notification and
metric integrations.

_NOTE: Sensu Enterprise supports contact routing for all integrations except
EC2, Puppet, Chef, Flapjack, and Event Stream._

In this guide we'll cover configuring and using Sensu Enterprise Contact Routing.

## Contact Routing Basics

In Sensu Enterprise Contact Routing, contacts are composed of a name and
configuration overrides for one or more of Sensu Enterprise's built-in
integrations or handler configurations. A contact in Sensu Enterprise is not too
dissimilar from a contact on your phone, in which they have a name and one or
more _identifiers_ for various communication `channels` (e.g. a `phone`
_number_, `email` _address_, `Twitter` _username_, etc). As an example your contact may have the following `email` _address_, `slack` _channel_, `pagerduty` _service\_key_, etc.

### Contact Configuration

Configuring a contact requires you to define the name of the contact and the

> services plus configuration override(s) for that contact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
services plus configuration override(s) for that contact under the `contacts` scope.
```

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      },
      "slack": {
        "channel": "#support"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

In the example above we have a contact named `support`. For `support` we
have an override configuration for `email` and `slack`. In our example we're having
this contact email `support@sensuapp.com` instead of the email integration's
default `to` address. For Slack, we're defining the channel the event should
post to, in this case `#support`.

### Check Configuration

Once a contact has been defined, we can now specify which contact(s) to use in a
check configuration. The use case for having a contact defined on a check could 
be that the check is owned by a particular team or group. For instance:

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Client Configuration

> A client configuration can include a contact to use. This is helpful for defining contacts at the client level which become the defaults for events that this client creates. Those defaults can be overridden by contacts specified in the check definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A client definition may include a list of contacts. Providing a list of contacts in the client definition ensures that those contacts will receive notifications for check results which do not explicitly define a list of contacts.

_NOTE: Contacts specified in a check definition will override contacts specified in the client definition for any check results generated by that client/check pair._
```

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "client": {
    "name": "ec2-west-id-12345",
    "address": "8.8.8.8",
    "subscriptions": [
      "production",
      "aws"
    ],
    "contact": "aws-team"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

# Example Implementations

> In this section we will be illustrating contact routing behaviors in a few example scenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section we will illustrate contact routing behaviors in a few example scenarios.
```

## Global Configuration

> In the following section we'll be going over different scenarios and illustrating how contact routing would be used and how contact routing affects notifications being sent. We'll be using Email, Slack and PagerDuty as our example integrations/handlers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following section describes different scenarios and illustrates how contact routing how contact routing affects notifications being sent in each. We'll be using Email, Slack and PagerDuty as our example integrations.
```

      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Because the `support` contact's configuration provides overrides matching the handler being used, any event generated for this check will use this contact's configuration.

![Single Handler with Single Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/single-handler/single-matching-contact.png)

### Single Handler with a Single Non-Matching Contact

This configuration has a single handler `email` a contact `support` configured. The `support` contact does not have a configuration override for `email`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "foobarkey"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

> Even though the contact `support` matches in both the `checks` and `contacts`, there is no configuration under the `support` contact for `email`. This means no change will be made to the default email configuration. In our example the email will be sent to "default@example.com".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although the contact `support` is defined under `contacts` and specified correctly in the check definition, the contact does not provide configuration the for `email` integration. This means no change will be made to the default `email` configuration. In this case, an email will be sent to "default@example.com".
```

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support",
        "dev"
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.io"
      }
    },
    "dev": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "foobarkey"
      }
    },
    "eng": {
      "slack": {
        "channel": "#engineering"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

For this instance two emails will be generated. The first email will be sent to `support` contact at "support@sensuapp.io". The second email will be sent to our global configuration email at "default@example.com".

The reason for this is that since we have one or more contacts that do not have a configuration override for `email`, we use the default configuration.

![Single Handler with Some Matching Contacts](/images/contact-routing/single-handler/some-matching-contacts.png)

## Multiple Handlers

### Multiple Handlers with a Matching Contact

> This configuration we have two handlers, `email` and `slack`, a contact `support` configured. The `support` contact has a configuration override for `email` that will change the default `to` email address from "default@example.com" to "support@sensuapp.io" and a configuration override for `slack` to change the `channel` from "#alerts" to "#support"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this configuration we have two handlers, `email` and `slack`,  and a contact `support` configured. The `support` contact has a configuration override for `email` that will change the default `to` email address from "default@example.com" to "support@sensuapp.io" and a configuration override for `slack` to change the `channel` from "#alerts" to "#support"
```

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email",
        "slack"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support"
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.com"
      },
      "slack": {
        "channel": "#support"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Because the contact configuration matches both handlers being used, any event generated for this check will use this contact's configuration.

![Multiple Handlers with Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/multiple-handlers/matching-contact.png)

### Multiple Handlers with a Single Matching Contact

> This configuration we have two handlers `email` and `slack` a contact `support` configured. The `support` contact has a configuration override for only `email` that will change the default `to` email address from "default@example.com" to "support@sensuapp.com". The `support` contact does not have a handler override for the `slack` handler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this configuration we have two handlers,`email` and `slack`, and a contact `support` configured. The `support` contact has a configuration override for only `email` that will change the default `to` email address from "default@example.com" to "support@sensuapp.com". The `support` contact does not have a handler override for the `slack` handler.
```

![Multiple Handlers with Multiple Matching Contacts](/images/contact-routing/multiple-handlers/multiple-matching-contacts.png)

### Multiple Handlers with Multiple Non-Matching Contacts

In this example we have two handlers configured for our check, `email` and `slack`. We have two contacts being used, `support` and `dev`, and both contacts have configuration override for `pagerduty` and do not include any override for `slack` or `email`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email",
        "slack"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support",
        "dev"
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "supportfoobarkey"
      }
    },
    "dev": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "devfoobarkey"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

> Since both contacts match and but both contacts do not have configuration overrides for both handlers, two handler events are generated. The default configuration for both handlers will be used

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since both contacts match and neither contact provides configuration overrides for either handler, two handler events are generated. The default configuration for both handlers will be used.
```

![Multiple Handlers with Multiple Non-Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/multiple-handlers/multiple-non-matching-contacts.png)

### Multiple Handlers with Some Matching Contacts

In this example we have two handlers configured for our check, `email` and `slack`. We have three contacts being used, `support`, `dev` and `eng`. Support has a contact override for `email` and `dev` has a contact override for `slack`. `eng` has a contact override for `pagerduty` which is not a handler that the check is using.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "example_check": {
      "command": "do_something.rb",
      "handlers": [
        "email",
        "slack"
      ],
      "contacts": [
        "support",
        "dev",
        "eng"
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "contacts": {
    "support": {
      "email": {
        "to": "support@sensuapp.io"
      }
    },
    "dev": {
      "slack": {
        "channel": "#dev"
      }
    },
    "eng": {
      "pagerduty": {
        "service_key": "foobarkey"
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

> With some contacts having at least one single matching contact override we can expect that there will be four different handler events generated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With some contacts providing at least one applicable settings override, we expect that there will be four different handler events generated.
```

For `email` handler we will be sending an email to the `support` contact override of "support@sensuapp.io". Since `dev` and `eng` do not have a contact override for `email` a single email will be sent to our default email configured, which in our case is "default@example.com".

> For `slack` handler, similar to our email handler, we'll be creating a message for our `dev` contact override to `#dev` channel. With `support` and `eng` both not having a contact override for `slack`, an message will be sent to our default `slack` channel configured, in our case "#alerts".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `slack` handler, similar to our email handler, we'll be creating a message for our `dev` contact override to `#dev` channel. Because neither `support` or `eng` contacts provide an override for `slack`, a single notification will be sent to our default `slack` channel, in our case "#alerts".
```

![Multiple Handlers with Some Matching Contact](/images/contact-routing/multiple-handlers/some-matching-contacts.png)

# Wrapping Up

## Contact Routing and Sensu Event Pipeline

> When a check is executed and an event is generated, Sensu splits handling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a check is executed and an event is generated, Sensu sends a copy of
```

> of the event for each handler defined allowing each handler to be managed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the event to each defined handler, allowing the workflow for each handler to be managed
```

independently.

![Contact Routing and Monitoring Event Pipeline](/images/contact-routing/contact-routing-MEP.png)

> Contacts are merged into the check handlers after filters are applied. After merging in the different valid contacts, a handler is executed for each valid contact. If a contact does not have a configuration for a handler, then the default configuration for that handler is used instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each handler evaluates the event to determine which contacts should be notified. For each contact defined in the event, the handler will generate a notification using either the contact's override configuration or the default handler configuration. For events which define multiple contacts without applicable overrides, only a single notification will be generated using the default handler configuration.
```
